The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Yillian Way, by John Keith Laumer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Yillian Way

Author: John Keith Laumer

Release Date: June 9, 2007 [EBook #21782]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE YILLIAN WAY ***




Produced by Robert Cicconetti, LN Yaddanapudi and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









THE YILLIAN WAY

By KEITH LAUMER

     The ceremonious protocol of the Yills was impressive,
     colorful--and, in the long run, deadly!


I

Jame Retief, vice-consul and third secretary in the Diplomatic Corps,
followed the senior members of the terrestrial mission across the tarmac
and into the gloom of the reception building. The gray-skinned Yill
guide who had met the arriving embassy at the foot of the ramp hurried
away. The councillor, two first secretaries and the senior attaches
gathered around the ambassador, their ornate uniforms bright in the vast
dun-colored room.

Ten minutes passed. Retief strolled across to the nearest door and
looked through the glass panel at the room beyond. Several dozen Yill
lounged in deep couches, sipping lavender drinks from slender glass
tubes. Black-tunicked servants moved about inconspicuously, offering
trays. A party of brightly-dressed Yill moved toward the entrance doors.
One of the party, a tall male, made to step before another, who raised a
hand languidly, fist clenched. The first Yill stepped back and placed
his hands on top of his head. Both Yill were smiling and chatting as
they passed through the doors.

Retief turned away to rejoin the Terrestrial delegation waiting beside a
mound of crates made of rough greenish wood stacked on the bare concrete
floor.

As Retief came up, Ambassador Spradley glanced at his finger watch and
spoke to the man beside him.

"Ben, are you quite certain our arrival time was made clear?"

Second Secretary Magnan nodded emphatically. "I stressed the point, Mr.
Ambassador. I communicated with Mr. T'Cai-Cai just before the lighter
broke orbit, and I specifically----"

"I hope you didn't appear truculent, Mr. Magnan," the ambassador said
sharply.

